# 1. Introduction to best practices

Superwave wants to make sure your campaigns are the first ones to land inside the inbox tab at all times.

We recommend to steer clear from most spammy behaviors and tactics.

### List of spammy behaviors detected by major email platforms:

* **New domains:** Superwave is able to inbox even on new domains (Check our other documentation). However, it’s recommended to have a domain that is at least 14 days old. You can check the spam-score of your domain with this [link](https://mxtoolbox.com/domain).
* **Weird domain extensions:** Superwave is able to inbox even with suspicious domain extensions that are cheap. We recommend to carry out email operations with the traditional extensions such as:

```latex
.com .net .io .co.uk
```

And avoid these spammy ones such as:

```latex
.work .date .top .fun .life .review .xyz .bid .stream .site .space .gdn .click .pro .world .fit .ooo .faith .buzz .accountant .ar .bg .bid .biz .biz.ua .br .camera .cc .cf .click .club .co .co.ua .co.in .co.mz .com.tw .computer .cricket .date .diet .download .email .faith .ga .gdn .global .guru .gq .help .in .info .kz .link .lol .loan .media .men .news .ninja .nyc .party .photography .pt .pw .racing .reise .review .rocks .ru .science .site .solutions .space .stream .tech .today .top .tr .trade .uno .us .vn .webcam .website .win .work .xyz
```

_Source: SpamAssassin_

* **Using spammy words:** Superwave is also able to inbox even with unnatural, salesy language. However, we recommend to paste your email scripts (Including the Spin-tax words without the {} brackets) in this [tool](https://www.mail-tester.com/spam-checker) and compare your wording with this [list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1J8hyIYdIyA5kFJ6J2mTcJlq2sXZfZo-dn7ZLwK2fIgk/edit?usp=sharing).
* **Sending the same email over and over:** Be sure to use spin-tax on all your emails. Not two emails should look the same. The more spin-tax on your wording, the more emails variations you can generate. Sending the same email over and over flags your domain. We recommend this [thesaurus](https://www.thesaurus.com/) to create multiple iterations of your brand message.

### Other things that are deemed spammy by email platforms:

* Images inside emails.
* Images as clickable links.
* Raw IP addresses in any URL in the email.
* Redirection links.
* UTM or affiliate-style links
* Empty messages
* JavaScript or any other type of executable code.
* HTML object tags
* IFRAME items.
* Foreign languages not common in the recipients’ inboxes
* Repeated sentences in bulk emailing (See: Importance of spintaxing)

### On spintax, subject lines, copywriting and related things:

Superwave is only catered to experienced cold email professionals that are able to handle campaigns and the complex variables that are needed for successful emailing. This means knowing how to:

* Write varied, rich spintax brackets.
* Personalize emails.
* Create compelling subject lines.
* Maneuver split tests.
* Not rely on gimmicks like imagery, HTML visuals, “video outreach”, and anything that is not a properly worded plaintext email.
* Tracking of all sorts beyond custom domains.

The truth is that the best and most successful campaigns are simple sequences of text that have a truly interesting offer.

### What Superwave does not make up for:

* Cheap, unverified, uninterested non-target leads.
* Bad copywriting.
* Lame offers or lame positioning of offers.
* Lack of sales skills or lead management skills.
* Lack of patience to build a proper campaign with worthwhile long term value.
* Sloppy campaign set up.

### Long story short:

The simpler, more human-like, sincere and valuable your cold emails are, the better for you. Superwave already takes care of the deliverability, but it’s always recommended to actually make use of your newly-acquired “email god-mode”.

In the end, crappy email tactics won’t produce the revenue a high-quality and well-thought out email campaign can.

### Do you have questions?

Ping us in Slack (You must be a member).
