# 5. Warming up

Superwave provides 75% deliverability on day one (As seen on the graphic above). This means you’re ready to deploy campaigns the same day you sign up with us.

Does this mean that you can fly with no warmup and completely disregard it? Let’s understand why warming exists in the first place.

### The two types of reputation:

First you have IP reputation, which decides if your email will be accepted into the inbox folder. Most commercial email providers like Google Workspace (Formerly known as GSuite) give you consumer-grade IPs that are good for business communications but not actual outreach-grade IPs.

In fact, accounts that are detected to be sending outreach campaigns are given lesser quality IPs by design to prevent the practice.

Superwave already gives you the finest IPs so there’s no need to “warm” up the IP as it’s already bestowed with the greatest reputation a sender can have, which in this case is Microsoft’s very own reputation.

Second, you have domain reputation, now this doesn’t right off the bat decide if you’ll land on inbox or not but it decides if your emails are something that recipients want to see or not. This can’t be circumvented even with the best IPs.

A misconception about warmup is that domains need to be warmed when in reality that thing that gets warmed is the IP. However this only applies if your IP is dedicated. In the case of enterprise IPs (Such as ours) there's no need for warmup since Microsoft needs to have pristine IPs at all times for obvious reasons.

In our case, warmup is needed not because of the IP but to train the Gmail and Outlook filters into believing you're a safe sender. This is why you will see that you can inbox on day one but if you screw up a spintax or fire emails too fast Gmail flips out.

Warming "teaches" Gmail et al. you're a sender people want to engage with for this specific scenario.

Although Superwave is designed to send on day one you can also stick to the tradition of warming up for 14 days to build reputation.

### The ESP’s IP

There’s a second IP that is usually not accounted for, and that’s your sending platform’s IP.

While the SMTP (In this case, Superwave) IP decides your reputation in a favorable manner, the IP used by your sending platform also plays a role. Unfortunately, many major cold email platforms cut costs by buying cheap bulk $0.30 per IP pools from major providers like Amazon and this ends up in a bounce like this:

**(Google can also reject a bad-IP email with the “Suspected spam” error).**

This means with even the best offer, copywriting, SMTP delivery system (Superwave), your sending providers business choices can destroy your campaigns. So always make sure your sender invests in the best pools available.

If you were to send a simple email from any mail app you would notice that the IPs belong to Microsoft:

This is because you did a “raw send”, meaning, you used the Microsoft IP both for deliverability and for connecting to other email platforms. You can see for yourself in a transparent manner that Superwave uses the internal Microsoft infrastructure.

### Long story short:

1. Superwave gives you day one almost perfect deliverability.
2. You still need to warm the addresses given to you to sustain it and not crash (See chapter 6).
3. Your ESP’s IP is important and can help or harm deliverability, so choose a proper sending platform (We recommend [Smartlead.ai](https://smartlead.ai/) (We have no financial interest, we just found out it’s the best platform after two months of grueling back and forth with other providers that buy thirty cent discount IP addresses).
